[RHACS] [Docs] ROX-29351: Adding documentation for keyless verification (#94078)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/performing-an-image-signature-verification.adoc

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * operating/verify-image-signatures.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="performing-an-image-signature-verification_{context}"]
= Performing an image signature verification

> Before you perform an image signature verification, you must first create a signature integration in {rh-rhacs-first}.

Reviewer: This is a prerequisite.
```suggestion
_something about why I want to perform an image signature verification_
```
```suggestion

> Before you perform an image signature verification, you must first create a signature integration in {rh-rhacs-first}.
This is a prerequisite. Instead, a brief description of why and how we are doing the image signature verification should be here. See https://redhat-documentation.github.io/modular-docs/#con-creating-procedure-modules_writing-mod-docs for details.

```

> When you create a signature integration, you can use the following verification methods:

Reviewer: These steps should be in a separate module, "Creating a signature integration." If it already exists, you can xref to it in the assembly after this module.

* Cosign public keys
* Cosign certificates
* Transparency log

.Prerequisites

> . You have a Cosign public key which is encoded in Privacy Enhanced Mail (PEM) format.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. You created a signature integration in {rh-rhacs-first}.

. You have a Cosign public key which is encoded in Privacy Enhanced Mail (PEM) format.
```

+ 
For more information about Cosign public keys, see link:https://docs.sigstore.dev/cosign/signing/overview/[Overview] (Sigstore documentation).

. You have the certificate identity and issuer.

> . Optional: You have a certificate and chain which is encoded in PEM format. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

. Optional: You have a certificate and chain which are encoded in PEM format. 
```
There should be a line space between steps. Also, are both certificate and chain encoded? If so, the verb is "are." If not, revise to "You have a certificate. You also have a chain which is encoded in PEM format." (or something like that)

+
For more information about Cosign certificates, see link:https://docs.sigstore.dev/cosign/verifying/verify/[Verifying Signatures] (Sigstore documentation).

.Procedure

. In the {product-title-short} portal, click *Platform Configuration* -> *Integrations*.
. Scroll down to the *Signature Integrations* section, and click *Signature*.
. To create a new signature integration, click *New integration*.

> . Enter a name for the integration. You can save the integration only after you specify a name for the integration.

Reviewer: Is this actually the last required step of performing an image signature verification? I don't see any other steps for that specific procedure, but instead a long list of Optional ones. All of the Optional procedures need to be separate modules. The actual thing we are trying to do here is lost.

> . Optional: To add a new public key, complete the following steps:

Reviewer: Adding a new public key should be a separate procedure module and all of this removed from the current module, especially since it is not required for image signature verification. We need to stick to the current procedure only here.

+

> [NOTE]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
This is all concept, and should not be a NOTE when the preview sentence was a "here are the steps to do xyz." This text can instead be used as a descriptor for a separate procedure module for adding a new public key.

> ====

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> ** If you add a public key, you do not need to create a new certificate verification.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> ** You can add one or more public keys.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> ** You can save the integration only after you specify a name and value for the public key.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> ====

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

.. Expand *Cosign public Keys*, and then click *Add new public key*.
.. Enter a name for the key. 
.. Enter a value for the key which is encoded in PEM format.

> . Optional: To add a new certificate verification, complete the following steps:

Reviewer: same comments as previous; this should be a separate procedure module and removed from this one

+

> [IMPORTANT]

Reviewer: this should be concept for additional procedure module

====
** When you create a signature integration, you must add a new certificate verification if you want to use keyless verification for the image signature by using {rh-rhtas-first}.
** You can add one or more certificate verifications.
** You can save the integration only after you specify a certificate OpenID Connect (OIDC) issuer and certificate identity for the certificate verification.
====

> .. Expand *Cosign certificates*, and then click *Add new certificate verification*.

Reviewer: steps should be for additional procedure module

.. Enter the certificate identity that Cosign specifies. You must use regular expressions in RE2 syntax for matching.
+
For more information, go to the GitHub repository at `google/re2`, open the `Wiki` section, and then select the `Syntax` page.
.. Enter the trusted certificate root which is encoded in PEM format to verify the certificates. If you do not specify the certificate root, the public Fulcio roots are used automatically for verification. 
+
For more information, see link:https://docs.sigstore.dev/certificate_authority/overview/[Fulcio] (Sigstore documentation).

.. Enter the trusted signer intermediate certificate authority to verify the certificates. If you do not specify the certificate authority, the certificate chain is used automatically for verification.
.. Optional: Select the *Enable certificate transparency log validation* checkbox to validate the proof of inclusion into the certificate transparency log.
+
Enter the public key that you want to use to validate the proof of inclusion into the certificate transparency log.
If you do not specify the public key, the key of the public Sigstore instance is used automatically for validation.

> . Optional: To configure the transparency log, complete the following steps:

Reviewer: same comments as previous two sets; as a whole, this content is not properly modularized and needs to be refactored

+

> [NOTE]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> ====

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
etc, remove all of this, make a separate module

> When you create a signature integration, you can enable the validation of transparency logs in the following situations:

Reviewer: We're back to signature verification? All the more reason that this should be a separate module.

** When the signatures contain short-lived certificates that Fulcio issues.
** When you want to use keyless verification of the signatures.
** To verify the signatures, when you use a public key.
====
.. Select the *Enable transparency log validation* checkbox to validate the inclusion of the signature in a transparency log.
+
Enter the URL where the Rekor transparency log is available. If you do not specify the URL, the public Rekor instance of Sigstore is used automatically for validation.
+
[NOTE]
====
The Rekor URL is required for online confirmation of the inclusion into the transparency log.
====
.. Optional: Select the *Validate in offline mode* checkbox to force the offline validation of the signature proof of inclusion into the transparency log.
+
[NOTE]
====
You can force the offline validation of the signature proof of inclusion into the transparency log only if you have enabled the validation of the transparency log.
====
+
Enter the public key to validate the signature proof of inclusion into the Rekor transparency log.
If you do not specify the public key, the key of the public Sigstore instance is used automatically for validation.

. Click *Save*.

.Verification

> * Verify that you can perform an image signature verification:

Reviewer: We should be verifying that we DID perform an image signature verification by now. Why are we verifying that we _can_?

> ** To scan an image signature by using the `roxctl` CLI, run the following command:

Reviewer: This looks like the actual procedure for performing an image signature verification. Is the rest of the content in this module really prereq for this?
